# Factorization

Its kind of funny, the amount of accidental finds bc of "vague intuition" but not really being able to articulate why in the last two years that led me down this path.. I feel like a god damn idiot trying random shit and stumbling on something cool every now and then. But it seems to work, so I'm not going to second guess it.. results are all that matters. I don't give a fuck about "academic rigor" and all that fucking shit that people accuse me of not having. It's fucking results that matter. And I will deliver results very soon.

FUCK, I don't understand why gaussian elimination is so effective in this scenario. I wish I had more fucking time to actually think about this instead of having to rush out a PoC like my life depended on it, which in fact, it probably does, bc I will kill myself soon if nothing changes. There is 0 dignity anymore in my current life. 

edit: It would appear I was wrong earlier, gaussian elimination does help. It's not as simplistic and straight forward as I had imagined in my head, my initial intuition to apply gaussian elimination was correct. Once this is published I'll have to do a much deeper study of linear algebra. In fact, gaussian elimination seems to be so good at reducing combinations in gf(p), without it, I don't think the algorithm would work. Kind of boggles my mind how effective it is in this context.. I need to figure out why one day.

When I released the version that attempted to solve it with LLL, literally people only mocked me. People don't understand what I'm doing at all. I'm trying to move as fast as I can, trying to find transformations that reduce the complexity of factorization into something more manageable, something more "computable". I do not have the time to explore exactly why everything works the way it does. I.e Express in formal terms why every semiprime can be represented as a quadratic where its coefficient is the sum of factors. What I cared about is, that finding p+q, the coefficient, reduces a lot of the complexity, and while many books talk about representing factorization as polynomials, I don't see any of them describe doing it the way I do. When I released that previous version, I knew it was wildly incomplete.. I guess I had hoped somebody would recognize exactly what I'm trying to do despite the (deliberate) lack of formal math. But people just laughed. It's the same how msrc always found a reason to downplay my RCE bugs (i.e stack buffer overrun with arbitrary length overwrite in IKE... I was finding those bugs long before anyone else was btw.. but nobody ever acknowledges anything remotely novel I do) from critical to important severity.. and it seems, for no other real reason than the fact that I found it. My whole career has been like that. And Microsoft HR proved that it wasn't just "in my head", people really think of me as incompetent, someone who didn't belong at Microsoft in the first place, otherwise they wouldn't have fired my manager for giving me a promotion. These last few months have been the hardest in my life, a lot of very serious thoughts about ending it.. anyway, my work is almost done, days away from release now.. and then I am going on expedition.. I have no plans beyond that.

Final final edit: Can't sleep, have to write down my thoughts. Nervous and depressed. Everything that happened in the US when I was there, it really fucked me up, a lot of days of really intense anger, fear and sadness. I still cannot figure out if there was targeted harassment happening, it is the only way I can connect all those events. I really miss my friends too. Life hasn't been the same ever since. I havn't gone outside wearing a dress since 2023 when I was in Vancouver.. it's hard without supportive friends and being in a place where I have never seen a trans person in public or gay people holding hands.. I hate everything about this place. Just back to my repressed self, dealing with trauma and being alone in a small room. Struggling the last two days finding a way to represent the data I'm working on with my algorithm. Decided now to go for a n-ary tree with hashmaps stored in each parent to access childnodes. Even with massive integers, the tree should still be reasonably small, since we construct it in gf(2) the first time around, and after that, we only prune the tree as we move to gf(3), gf(5), etc. If this algorithm doesn't work when I'm done, I don't know what I'm going to do. This has to work, it's the only way I can somehow give meaning to everything. If nothing good comes out of nearly 2 years of the hardest work I have done in my life... aside from ending up in my current circumstances.. it's over then, my life is literally over then.

Final edit: I was thinking while running today. When I really get to the very core of it, I don't need gaussian elimination, in fact, it's just wasted cpu cycles. All that is important is matching residues of our multiple-choice subset-sum problem to square residues (since the sum has to be a square). And by working in GF(p), we can ignore duplicate residues in GF(p) .. this actually gives us a way to work with a lot less possible combinations.. and by matching results from differend  prime fields, we can quickly sieve out the real solution. It works. It works 100%, I got that part figured out. There is no doubt about that anymore. It's just a whole lot of refactoring and writing code now. Next week will probably be good for release (for real now). Either way, got spooked today after running, with cars pulling up and weird shit.. but I think that's also the trauma of having been threatened with a gun. If I die, the answer is in these past sentences, this github repo will get cloned, it will get cached.. someone else will figure it out eventually.. although I would prefer if I could get over that finish line first. I am going to stop journaling my progress now, because I know I got it now.. and I feel on the brink of a nervous breakdown, usually not a good time to express my thoughts online. 

Edit 12: It is kind of depressing not a single person takes my work seriously. All I have to go on, is my own believe in myself. A lot of days, that is very hard. Still, burning a bunch of research on github is not what I would have prefered. But I have 0 alternatives. Hence we go forward.. unafraid of consequence.


Edit 11: I had another insight just now. This is it. Its still a massive amount of work for all the code to be ready. A lot of refactoring and optimizing left. But the math checks out and I know this is it. I feel immense stress and time pressure to finish this asap and get it out into the public domain. Right now I have the benefit nobody takes me serious, but I have no doubt people would use violence to either stop my work or acquire it. I dont care much about my own safety, but I do care about my family's safety.

edit 10: Fuck I am nervous and stressed. I am either on the brink of a massive breakthrough in the next few days or on the brink of absolute ruin. The math checks out, I know this will be it. Before the end of the week I will know for sure.

edit 9: The algorithm is finished now in code (i.e it can factor arbitrary semiprimes). It does seem to work without any unforeseen pitfalls. Now I will need to spent the rest of the week optimizing everything. There is an awful lot of moving parts, lots of indexing. Right now I'm using iterative search on a lot of places, which I'll need to replace with binary search, trees or mappings. The core ideas work and should resolve my main bottleneck with factorization.. it's just pure software engineering starting tomorrow. I like doing the math, but it requires such intensive focus and deep thinking for days, I am very tired now. I do expect this to work better then any of my previous attempts, we'll see in a few days.

edit 8: In the past I would sometimes tweet  "factorization or suicide". It wasn't really a joke. I don't think I can stop until I either succeed or kill myself. I hope this is truely it. Because I am now literally at the end of my rope. I can see why so many math folks kill themselves working on a problem.. I truely understand it. Math can ruin your life. It is the most dangerous pursuit of knowledge in the world. You can literally spent years working on something and have nothing to show for it. Nothing to turn into income. And unless you succeed, you are left with absolutely nothing. Even in the Academic world, they still expect results I assume, which is not a garantuee with the hardest of problems. But at the same time, life is so fucking short, I have lost so many people in my life already, if I had one chance, no matter how remote, how absurd, to change the world.. then shouldn't I dedicate my entire life to it? And once you get pulled into the depths of a problem like factorization.. it becomes impossible to resurface again, it becomes mental illness, like OCD.. like a siren's song calling you, drowning you. Life isn't easy. Friends are everything in life. Without friends there is only madness.

edit 7: Thinking too much after a day of work. I miss my friends. I can still talk to them on my phone, but its not the same. Those days in Vancouver with my teamlead and the other friends I had there.. I feel physical pain thinking about them. Best few years in my entire life. Now it's just back to being alone for years. Making friends isn't easy either. There's few people I can connect to at a meaningful level, my former managers were one of the few exceptions. There's a lot of days I think about suicide. But I would like to go on expedition first, because that has been a life long dream. I think the trump presidency also upset me. Most of my friends from back when I was in Vancouver moved to WA state (although I think they will go back to Vancouver eventually since its a better and safer place) .. but it's a closed door now for me to ever be reunited with my friends. Especially after last week. I am probably on many lists now. The world is going to shit. I think it would be funny if a trans person would drop the secret to factorization on github.. it would piss off all the right people.. or atleast I can keep dreaming for a while about breaking factorization.. I won't know for sure until the code is fully done, sometimes the devil is in the details. I would sell my soul to be back in Vancouver with my friends.. when life is good, you should never take it for granted.. because all it takes is one incident, one asshole to shout insults at you, or pull a gun on you.. or whatever.. for it all to spiral out of control and be left with nothing but painful memories. I don't know how to cope with it at all. 

Edit 6: I'll just keep doing monologues until release I guess. It helps with the stress and forces all the threat intel folks to read my insane ramblings. Tomorrow the overall algorithm should be done in code. After that all that is left is optimizing things, ironing out bugs and editing the previous paper (which in retrospect also had some errors). I am curious once the code is done, where the limits are this time. It solves my biggest bottleneck by restricting combinations in our multiple-choice subset-sum problem to gf(p), this lets us remove duplicate rows in a matrix I'm running gaussian elimination over (the exact math will be revealed on release) .. this actually lets us do something amazing, I don't want to spoil everything yet in fear of some academic sweeping in and publishing a paper before I release my own work.. but it's really fucking cool, bc it lets us manage and reduce complexity in a neat way, albeit within the specific context of factorization, which has certain preconditions that make this possible. I would like to one day maybe generalize this work a bit more. But one step at a time.

ps: Im not bluffing, nor bullshitting. When I said I found a way to approach the factorization problem with LLL, I proved it (see other repo). It didnt end up working very well, but it still works. Fast forward another 6 months, I learned alot.. and solving it with gaussian elimination works. It works really well. I dont joke about things like this. You will see soon enough.. I wonder sometimes if burning my research is exactlt what people want.. but then agaim, this will be the big one.. I dont stand to lose much now. This will be the one people cannot ignore or downplay.

Edit 5: Anyway, time to stop these monologues. It is still a lot of work to get it all ready for publication, even though I have already hit a point where I have a rudimentary proof of concept that demonstrates my ideas beyond the shadow of a doubt. That part is finished now. Next stop is getting everything ready for release. It will happen for sure before the end of the month. Although I prefer sooner rather then later, as I have no doubt people would love to prevent disclosure, by force if needed. I am kind of in disbelieve it has seemed impossible to be taken serious.. I don't think I will feel very sorry for full disclosure considering that fact.. and also just after everything that has happened. I have done enough signaling. I have done all I could have done. I really really fucking tried. Good luck.

Edit 4: After making more progress, I am now entirely convinced that this is it. This is the big one. Anything happens to me between now and disclosure, it was not an accident or suicide. It works. It fucking works. I am nervous. It is probably good people think im just crazy. Nothing cam stop this. This has to happen.

Edit3: Guess the bullshit is motivating me to finish my work. Found a burst of focus again. As I am working out the details in code, I am now 100% convinced that this is it. It will work as I envisioned and at this pace it will most definitely be ready in the next couple of days. People think im some mentally unstable fool, but they too will see soon enough. Nearly 2 years of work, almost there now.

Its funny, bc everyone thinks Im just some insane loser. Despite my previous work.. there's not a single person in the world right now taking my attempt on factorization serious. Not one. But it's a matter of days nows.. I guess I do write alot of monologues like an insane person.. I used to be around friends and have people to talk to, but you all took that away fron me.

You should start hearing the final boss music very soon... haha.. this will work once the code is done in the coming days. There is literally no reason for it not to work. Its just residue math. The fact I can do gaussian elimination over small prime fields, means I can reduce the amount of residue combinations to mod p, and at the same time, completely eliminate combinations, thus with each round of gaussian elimination over different prime fields I can keep shrinking the solution set.. I had been trying an approach like this for months now, but it wasnt until I explored gaussian elimination that I figured out how to actually do it without pitfalls. shouldnt have fired my manager. This is for my manager.

Edit2: Fucking americans harassing me again. I will publish my work next week (week of the 20th). It's time. I warned people, over and over again. I tried. Good luck assholes. Found a way to eliminate coefficient solutions to quadratic congruences without it implying knowledge of the global solution using gaussian elimination and some of the stuff I theorized in my previous paper.. people dont understand the implications of this yet.. but they will soon enough... i warned you, nothing more I could have done.

Edit: Fuck this industry. Ill gladly die soon. But first I will finish this. I figured it out for real. It works. Im finalizing the code. Nobody believed in me and everyone just laughed... it works, i figured it out, and you can all go to hell.


Next iteration of my algorithm. Uses gaussian elimination instead of LLL. Releasing this month.
It builds on my previous work and will provide a massive improvement.. it should be much much faster then quadratic sieve as it improves that algorithm in every way.
Since it eliminates the need to find smooth numbers over a factor base. And even though, we cannot look at exponents and apply gaussian elimination over GF(2), since we are working in addition (i.e adding partial results to get a square in mod m... see the number theoretical results of my paper) .. there are other ways to do it. 
Just finishing the code now after I figured out the number theory/linear algebra portion of it these last few days..
I kind of feel shitty it took me this long to come to the realization that I can just use gaussian elimination.. but struggling with depression has made it really hard to focus on anything at all lately.

I am aiming to release before the 20th of January. Being an infamous lgbtq cyber terrorist, I will no longer feel safe in the western hemisphere, so anything I do has to be done before that day.
After that, I am headed to Greenland to fight the incoming American invasion with my armies of polar bears, hahaha. Get fckt losers.

It is funny, in these last 6 months, only my Chinese friend has been trying to help me out and showed respect. I enjoyed talking to my Chinese friend, it made these last 6 months a little less desperate and lonely.. to feel like atleast someone still valued my work and my legacy. I think I would have loved to see China and meet the people there. Alas time is running out and moves have to be made now. Good luck.

All I wanted was some god damn respect.

Most of all, I miss my friends. When I was living in Vancouver, hanging out with my teamlead there, going hiking, having beers on the beach. Running on the seawall every day. The support I had from my other manager. It was the absolute best time of my life, even though I didn't always realize it at the time. In 2022 everything started to change. The harassment in public started, for a while I thought I was being targeted with lies by someone.. but then again.. you just have to open twitter these days to see where all that bullshit was coming from. It all came crashing down when I moved to the US, and I was running around the Microsoft campus and some idiots were shouting "p*do" at me from their car. One of many such incidents that year. I became severely agitated, I was also working extremely hard, pushing myself to the maximum, and together with the harassment, it caused me to completely crash. I had a breakdown and a suicide attempt on campus. They put me on admin leave.. while on admin leave, after running two guys started taunting me from their car, when I walked up to them to confront them.. one of the guys was waiting inside with a gun in his hand. I gave a good knock against their car and walked away as quickly as I could, and the guy got out, pointing that gun at me being like "welcome to american, bitch". The amount of stress I experienced in that moment was like nothing else in my life. These were complete strangers, in a foreign country... pointing a lethal weapon at me. I remember expecting to hear shots any time.. everything going in slow motion. After that I couldn't sleep for 2 weeks. I remember getting drunk and screamnig in my apartment in the middle of the night. Then Microsoft fired me for the earlier breakdown. I desperately tried to find a way to stay in the country so I could atleast stay near my friends. But all the feds could do was "deferred action".. which meant that if my parents ever had a medical emergency, leaving the country to visit them would be impossible as I couldn't re-enter after that. Then a few months later Microsoft also fired my manager, simply because a few years earlier, I wrote on a manager connect that I felt like I hadn't really done anything... but I just said that bc I put the bar for myself very high.. but because I got a promotion after that, Microsoft HR used that as proof that I was promoted unfairly. And there was a few other complete bullshit reasons like that.. which to literally anyone who has actual context, it is obvious that this was 100% retaliation because my manager tried to prevent Microsoft from firing me. My manager had worked there for 27 years, and you fired him with bullshit reasons, while portraying me as incompetent. This cannot ever be forgiven. Ever since, life has not been good. I cannot find a job. The world has changed. There is no more respect. 0 fucking respect.
